chore(website): Gandi blog post (#5275)
cloudquery/cloudquery: website/pages/blog/introducing-the-gandi-source-plugin.md

---
title: Introducing The Gandi Source Plugin
tag: announcement
date: 2022/12/01
description: >-
CloudQuery is an open-source, extensible framework that gives you a
single-pane-of-glass to your cloud-infrastructure using SQL. Today, we are

> happy to announce the release of the Gandi source plugin CloudQuery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
happy to announce the release of the Gandi source plugin.
```

author: disq
---

import { BlogHeader } from "../../components/BlogHeader"

<BlogHeader/>

CloudQuery is an open-source, extendable framework that gives you a single-pane-of-glass to your cloud-infrastructure using SQL. Today, we are happy to announce the release of the Gandi source plugin for CloudQuery.

Gandi is a company providing domain name registration, web hosting and related services. Gandi also provides a cloud platform, which includes a virtual private server (VPS) offering.

CloudQuery now supports pulling domain and DNS resources from [Gandi](https://gandi.net/) using Gandi's API.

Take a look at our [Configuration](/docs/plugins/sources/gandi/configuration) section to configure required credentials for the plugin.

Below are some real world query examples to get you started.

> ## Detect soon to expire domain registrations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Detect domain registrations that will expire soon
```

Either this or "soon-to-expire domain registrations" (with hyphens)

> If you have more than just one domain, keeping track of which one will expire soon can be a problem. Here's a query to check how many days left on each registration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have more than just one domain, keeping track of which one will expire soon can be a problem. Here's a query to check how many days there are left on each registration:
```

```sql
select fqdn, dates->>'registry_ends_at' as registry_ends_at, date_trunc('day', (dates->>'registry_ends_at')::timestamp - current_timestamp) as days_left from gandi_domains where ((dates->>'registry_ends_at')::timestamp - interval '90 day') < current_timestamp order by 1;
```

> This query would output a table of domain names that are going to expire in the next 90 days or less:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This query would output a table of domain names that are going to expire within the next 90 days:
```

```
      fqdn      |   registry_ends_at   | days_left
----------------+----------------------+-----------
 yourdomain.co  | 2023-01-28T08:09:41Z | 58 days
 yourdomain.com | 2023-01-31T15:58:08Z | 61 days
(2 rows)
```

You can now put this in a dashboard or set up an alert on it.

## Make sure all your LiveDNS domains have automatic snapshots

> Automatic snapshots is a Gandi LiveDNS feature to ensure you always have a back up to a previous state of the domain configuration. With the following query it's possible to list any domains you manage but which don't have automatic snapshots enabled for some reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatic snapshots is a Gandi LiveDNS feature to ensure you always have a backup to a previous state of the domain configuration. With the following query it's possible to list any domains you manage, but which don't have automatic snapshots enabled for some reason.
```

```sql
select d.fqdn from gandi_livedns_domains d left join gandi_livedns_snapshots s on s.fqdn=d.fqdn and s.automatic where s.fqdn is null;
```

> This will return a list of domain names that don't have the automatic snapshots feature enabled. You can set up on alert on this query and make sure your domain configurations are automatically backed up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will return a list of domain names that don't have the automatic snapshots feature enabled. You can set up an alert on this query and make sure your domain configurations are automatically backed up.
```

```
     fqdn
---------------
 yourdomain.co
(1 row)
```

## Get a list of glue records

> Glue records are used to solve circular dependencies in the DNS and are crucial to set up correctly and maintain. The following query will list all glue records in your Gandi account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Glue records are used to solve circular dependencies in DNS and are crucial to set up correctly and maintain. The following query will list all glue records in your Gandi account.
```
